The files here are intended to be helpful, NOT to limit what you can do.
>>Ignore them entirely, if you prefer!<<  However, as indicated in the handout,
whatever you turn in must satisfy the following criteria:

1. 'gmake' must compile your program from scratch, producing an executable
   file 'apyc' in this directory.
2. 'gmake check' must run all your tests against your ./apyc program.
3. 'gmake APYC=PROG check' must run all your tests against the program
   PROG.
4. The command
      ./apyc --phase=1 FOO1.py
   should produce AST file FOO1.ast.
5. The command
      ./apyc --phase=1 -o BAR FOO1.py
   will produce AST file BAR.
6. Likewise, --phase=2 produces decorated, semantically analyzed trees in 
   FOO1.dast and BAR.
7. Your program must exit with code 1 if there are any errors in any of the
   files, or if there are other errors (such as missing, unreadable, 
   or unwritable files).  It must produce a proper error message for syntax
   errors.
8. Your program must exit with code 0 otherwise.
9. We have also added a -dp option, which turns on parser debugging
   output when present.

Don't let anything in your finished program remain mysterious to you.
Try to understand everything that's here, and if you can't, then feel
free to ask us what's going on.

We judge your program by how it runs ON THE INSTRUCTIONAL SYSTEMS.  It's 
no good protesting that it works at home; your "customer" is not running on 
your home setup!

Be sure to submit your program properly (by copying to your team's (NOT your
personal) tags directory as proj2-N for integer numeral N.  I further suggest
that you check out the tag directories that you submit into new working
directories and make sure they compile and run properly (so that you can 
see if you are accidentally missing files).

The current contents of the files here are extremely skeletal.  Don't expect
that just because you see a class in the skeleton, it is complete.  
Furthermore, you are free to change or discard ANY PART of it as long
as your final program works according to spec.

Likewise, the tests are completely inadequate.

If you add a new source file, be sure to modify Makefile appropriately,
and 'svn add' it as well.  If you remove a file, modify Makefile and 
'svn remove' the old file.  Whenever you add or remove a file, or add, 
remove or modify an #include statement, be sure to run 'gmake depend'.
This keeps the Makefile informed of what depends on what.

MANIFEST:

  Makefile:   General directions for building and testing the program.
  README:     This file.
  staff-version: A tag file used to identify the version of the staff
                 skeleton that was last merged into the source
                 files.

  Directory src/
        Makefile    General instructions for building and testing the program.
	apyc.cc:    Contains the main program and some general utilities.
	apyc.h:     Some high-level interfaces between modules.
	ast.h:      Base classes for AST nodes.
	ast.cc:     Method definitions for base classes and
     	            definitions for a few widely used AST subtypes.
        exprs.cc:   AST subclass definitions for expression-related types.
	stmts.cc:   AST subclass definitions for statement-related types.
	tokens.cc:  Definitions of token (leaf) AST subclasses.
        types.cc:   Definitions of nodes representing types.
        environ.cc: Definitions for environs (symbol tables).
        decls.cc:   Definitions related to declarations.
        modules.cc: Definitions related to modules.

	apyc.hn:    The parser/lexer grammar file.


  tests/
      tests/test-proj1:  A testing script for project 1.  It
	       runs the compiler, unparses the resulting AST,
	       runs Python on the result, and checks the output.
      tests/test-proj2:  A testing script for project 2.  It
	       runs the compiler, unparses the resulting AST,
	       runs Python on the result, and checks the output.

      tests/correct2/     Tests that are supposed to be correct programs
	       for phase 2:
	  trivial.py, trivial.in, trivial.std:
	       A sample program, input file, and expected output file.

      tests/error2/       Tests that are supposed to cause errors for
	       phase 2.
	  triviallybad.py:
	       A sample erroneous program.


MERGING UPDATES FROM A SKELETON
-------------------------------

When new versions of the skeleton come out (it's bound to happen), you
can merge in changes to the skeleton with changes you've made by using
the following procedure:

1. Commit the current version of your project (svn commit).  Use svn
   status to make sure everything you think is checked in really is.

2. Look at the file staff-version in your directory, which should say
   something like "Skeleton version: proj2-N." (where N is some
   number).  This represents the last version of the skeleton you
   merged in our checked out. 

3. In your project 2 directory (NOT a subdirectory!) merge changes
   with the command (on the instructional servers)

       svn merge $STAFFREPOS/tags/proj2-N $STAFFREPOS/proj2

4. You may have conflicts (places where both the skeleton and your
   version have changed in conflicting ways).  SVN will prompt you to
   resolve these (in the conflicted file, they will be marked with
   >>>>> and <<<<).  You can do it later (postponing resolution until
   after the merge), editing the file to what you want, and then use 
   'svn resolve --accept working FILE' (where FILE is a conflicted
   file) to tell SVN you've fixed the conflict (svn status will tell
   you about remaining conflicted files).

5. When any conflicts are removed, svn commit the changes caused by the
   merge.
